--- 
title: Oracle To Acquire Oracle
date: 01/04/2010

REDWOOD SHORES -- Oracle is rumored to have lined up yet another in a long string of billion dollar acquisitions, and this time they have set their sights on their very own corporation. No one from Oracle has been willing to make an official statement regarding the rumors, but the news has been spreading throughout Silicon Valley.

Oracle, currently worth an estimated 47 billion USD, is a market leader in enterprise software, known particularly for their database product. Industry analysts admit that a corporation buying itself outright is unprecedented, but that, "As a strategic move, it makes a great deal of sense." Enterprise consultant Robert Forsythe comments, "At this point, there are not a whole lot of other companies for Oracle to acquire. Purchasing themselves provides a creative way around this dilemma. Also, adding Oracle's stellar sales staff to their already exhaustive line of software products is sure to be a winning combination." Forsythe added, "I would predict that the shareholders will be happy to hear this rumor confirmed in the near future."

Not all industry analysts are quite so certain. "Rumors fly all over Silicon Valley on a regular basis," said veteran Valley analyst Pratik Singh. "This is just the latest in a long line of the same. Could Oracle buy Oracle? Well, sure they could. They certainly have the capital to do so, and are in a better position than anyone else to know the details of Oracle's business and strategy. But I fear this will only end up much like last year's rumored acquisition of software giant Microsoft, by software giant Microsoft. That had everyone's heads turning as well." Pratik added, "Of course, no one in the press bothered to pay attention to the fact that this would have been a terrible acquisition."

When questioned about the apparent contradiction inherent to the rumors, Forsythe said, "Sure, industry outsiders might ask questions like, <em>why would Oracle buy themselves? Don't they already own themselves?</em>" Forsythe paused to allow himself a knowing chuckle. "But that just betrays a lack of understanding of how things work in the Valley."

Indeed, acquisitions in and around Silicon Valley have a long and convoluted history, especially Oracle's own long list of corporate purchases. Just last year, Oracle announced a purchase of BEA Software, an announcement which was hastily retracted when it was discovered that Oracle had already purchased BEA Software the previous fiscal year.

Even the skeptical Singh notes, "Oracle does have some of the brightest business minds in the world on their payroll. It would be irresponsible to assume that they have not considered the possibility of an acquisition of Oracle, by Oracle, and that they would not have made some detailed projections on the possible results of such a transaction. If they believed it would be a positive move for the shareholders, well, of course, every consideration would be made and Oracle would ultimately make the decision that is best for itself, it's shareholders and its customers and other stakeholders."

Regardless of the many and varied opinions put forth by the industry pundits, the rumors continue to gain momentum, and Oracle's stock price has indeed jumped several points by close of business yesterday as a result.

Oracle's CEO, Larry Ellison, also refused to comment directly on the rumors, saying only, "I'm Larry f@#$ing Ellison, I'll buy whatever the f@#$ I want to," before threatening members of the press corps with disembowelment at the hands of his samurai bodyguards.